it's not hard to give advice it's not
hard to give people good advice what's
really hard is giving people the advice
that they need to hear but that they
don't want to hear I was in this
position with my girlfriend as she began
her strict adherence to Nina and
Rhonda's clear skin diet as she
continued to adhere to it as her own
acne got worse and worse ultimately
ending with her having tests done at a
hospital and her having to confront the
extent to which she had taken a
scientific hypothesis and clung to it
like a religious dogma until it became
not just pseudo-scientific but
anti-scientific she took some that could
have been a positive healthy experiment
with a new and different diet and she
turned into something that ruined her
life for several months and frankly tore
our relationship apart so this is in
part a narrative about a diet a diet
book Nina and randa's diet it's in part
a more personal narrative about my
girlfriend's experience with the diet
and you can hear more from her
perspective on her youtube channel and
it's in part an even more personal
narrative of the effects that this had
on our relationship which is to some
extent philosophical here's what I mean
at the beginning the middle and the end
of my girlfriend's adherence to the Nina
and Randa diet I insisted to her that
what she was doing was an experiment and
I reminded her again and again that an
experiment by definition is something
with an outcome that remains unknown I
tried to prevent her from taking on the
optimistic and yet fatalistic mentality
that previously she had been given bad
advice by doctors who wanted her to be a
slave to medication and that now she was
liberated by the advice
this book I pointed out to her at the
beginning the middle and the end that
she had ended up replicating the
attitudes that she'd seen me criticize
on this YouTube channel in like
2015-2016 Eve whatever even 2017 the
attitudes I'd criticized amongst the
followers of freelee and durianrider
whereby they first took on a sort of
anti-establishment bias of blaming a
conspiracy of doctors nurses and
hospitals and then embraced a philosophy
of using food as medicine i noticed
early on that Melissa had become really
emotionally committed to the notion that
the medical establishment had let her
down had led her down the wrong path
that they had shown no concern for her
well for her health and put her on drugs
that from her perspective would prevent
her from ever really having I guess
reproductive autonomy or whatever would
prevent her from having a having a baby
because one large part of her treatment
was getting on the birth control pill at
an early age and remaining on the birth
control pill partly for birth control
it's one side effect that's one benefit
but primarily because it it prevented
the eruption and for her acne now I
would try to balance this narrative but
pointing out to her that she was on
medicine that had serious side effects
but also had serious benefits she had
lived she'd had a great quality of life
and had had clear skin and no acne from
about age 14 to age 20 for ten years and
while I do not deny that the birth
control pill has negative side effects
the positive effects and the motivations
of the doctors have put her on the pill
should not be dismissed and they
shouldn't be dismissed because a fad
diet book like you never and his diet
book is promising you that if only you
would hear to the strictures of their
diet strictly enough it'll cure your
acne now let's be clear Nina and
Rhonda's diet
the only efficacy it could have
and curing your acne is if if there is
something in your diet that's causing
your acne for example if you are
allergic to peanuts or if you have
something like an allergic reaction to
almonds and then eliminating peanuts and
almonds from your diet eliminates your
acne so many people will have that
effect so in effect this is the same
kind of outcome as an elimination diet
and as you'll see in this video
elimination diets can be disregarded
destructive and it can be in their way
pseudo-scientific and very misleading
for people but if that was your problem
if that was why you had acne then Ninan
ratas diet would seem to work for you
miraculously this is not the only reason
why women get acne hormonal acne
indicates that you have a hormonal
problem and my girlfriend knew from day
one of this experiment the nature of her
acne was not dietary it was hormonal
okay that's why taking the birth control
pill solved the problem
alright because this is a birth control
pill suppresses your hormonal cycles it
changes the balance of hormones in your
body all month round of course
especially with reference to the
menstrual cycle um
so she was on a hormone suppressing drug
that alleviated her acne and she guarded
dread that she would quit this drug she
would quit all the medication she was on
she would just embrace strict adherence
to this diet and that that would cure
acne now again as an experiment if you
can do that experiment with detachment
that's one thing but that's not what she
did she didn't have the attachment she
wanted to believe in this diet and I
kept counseling her to have caution and
attachment and scientific attitude and
for to admit the imperfection on body
and what I got back sorry what I say
that the professional body what I mean
is do not start from the assumption that
you are entitled to good health by birth
and that it is impossible that you
need medicine to have good health
because that was precisely her attitude
during this period of time and I kept
giving her counter examples like I said
to at one point you know I had another
girlfriend an ex-girlfriend who needed
to be on the birth control pill to live
she had a different completely different
health problem the birth control pill
solves a lot of hormonal problems
wouldn't have but another girl from the
completely different other problem she
had to be on birth control I gave her
the example of people with dwarfism a
lot of people with dwarfism part of the
problem is endocrine or is hormonal and
they're on a range of hormone treatments
their whole lives just to try to have a
relatively normal life cope with their
condition there are all kinds of people
born with all kinds of conditions where
they can't take for granted that diet
and exercise alone will solve their
problem it's just it's a ridiculous
dogmatic mentality but that was
precisely her mentality was familiar to
me from critiques of madness you know
her mentality was that she was entitled
to good health the diet and exercise
alone should guarantee this to her as
her birthright and that there was a kind
of conspiracy of dunces in the medical
establishment that the doctors didn't
care about her that they weren't really
trying to help her or even that the
doctors were trying to keep her down by
giving her this medicine this medicine
that had prevented her discovery of or
her earlier subscribing to this diet
that would have solved other problems
and she kept clinging to this despite my
counseling despite my kind of having
interventions despite the fact that her
acne got worse and worse as she adhered
to the diet more and more tightly now
what do I mean at the time that we made
a relatively positive video about the
diet and you can see in that video I'm
just partly supporting her and we're
talking about problems in the
relationship talking about a number of
issues when she first started the diet
she was still eating oatmeal and believe
it or not oatmeal is relatively high fat
if the staple of your diet is oatmeal
you're eating oatmeal all day in large
quantities you're actually getting a
good
fed and at that point her acne was okay
and she was working out of the gym and
she had a relatively balanced that we
done it okay what Nina and Rand has died
instructs you to do is if you're not
getting results commit to it even more
and keep eliminating more and more
normal food so she kept eliminating
foods she kept doing more reading so the
old meal had to be eliminated rice had
to be eliminated fruit had to be
eliminated sweet potatoes could no
longer be baked now they could only be
bul helped Oh I mean there was
absolutely no fat in her diet at all she
went from having a low-fat diet to an
extremely low fat diet to a really zero
fat diet and her acne got worse when
there was less fat her diet and when
there were little hiccups were she had a
little bit more fat in her diet I
noticed that her acne got better once
just once I pointed that out to her and
she screamed at me and got all
emotionally upset at me you know over
this and I said look I have I have proof
I have evidence we have YouTube videos
from these different periods of time and
we had a few a few photographs
it was really the YouTube videos so look
show you this video show you this video
you can see you know your skin your skin
got worse and worse and worse and then
it got better when you had a little bit
more fat in your diet so again keep in
mind we're a NAT were talking about here
this is the difference between low fat
and extremely low fat that's that's the
frames like low fat an absolute zero fat
we're not talking about switching to a
high fat diet we're not talking about
anything like that and you know a couple
days later she she admitted see she she
calmed down she great should yeah you
know when you go back and like that but
then this isn't the only Theory these
books present you with she then start
looking the fact that spikes and blood
sugar can correspond to acne so this is
a justification for eliminating rice
white rice did seem to cause acne for
eliminating fruit this diet became more
and more extreme
and by the way during this whole period
of time sheet mentions in her video she
says that I was loving and supportive
for me I didn't care that she had acne
at all I mean the actual appearance of
her face got worse and worse I mean she
can attest to this I was a very patient
unloving boyfriend in that respect she
had to travel everywhere with boiled
beans and before was rice and beans
before that it was oatmeal but she had
these plastic portably I bought other
containers she had these portable
containers reusable containers of the
snap-on lid so at first it was oatmeal
later rice and beans then after that
just beans and again at one point she
had sweet potatoes then couldn't have
roasted sweet potatoes anymore but she
had to have precooked food that she
carried with her everywhere including
obviously to the airport but even a
couple times who went out to a
restaurant to see her parents and she
had to bring food with her she had to
she had to have a pressure cooker in the
hotel room when we were in hotel rooms
together to be able to boil things so
she could eat something and maintain
perfectly her commitment to this
absolute zero fat diet so that that part
of it believe it or not wasn't a problem
for me as a boyfriend okay the problem
was that my girlfriend was having a
dogmatic anti-science view that she was
extremely emotionally attached to and
she was going through this kind of
downward spiral of self justification
because her acne was getting worse and
worse her diet was getting more and more
restrictive and she wanted so much to
believe that she would be healed if only
her she could be a hundred percent
purified by this ridiculous diet all
right and again starting reading it
doesn't make sense it does not make
sense okay if your problem was that acne
for you is caused by almonds or peanuts
then eliminating those things weather
day if in your case you have acne
because you were eating a ton of
oily doughnuts that the grease levels of
donuts are creating oil on your skin and
then eliminating that as that if ever
you grate
I do not none of us have statistics
maybe there is there some significant
number of people statistically for whom
that's there okay but let's say let's
say hypothetically that you're a woman
who has acne and the reason why is PCOS
polycystic ovarian syndrome and within
that there's a whole range of
possibilities I talked to one woman
directly she got acne and she ended up
needing surgery multiple surgeries to
remove cysts from her reproductive tract
why because the acne was hormonal okay
so the acne is a symptom it's a symptom
of what it's a symptom of a hormonal
problem and in did that case the
hormonal problem is caused by a cyst
that needs to remove by surgery there is
absolutely no way that eating Nina and
Rhonda's diet could solve that problem
there's no way it's even gonna lead you
to a diagnosis on the contrary what it's
gonna lead you to do is avoid getting
the diagnosis avoid even thinking
through that possibility because you're
gonna blame yourself for not at least
this is my girlfriend's mentality you're
gonna blame yourself for not being
committed enough to a diet you're gonna
go through the checklist you're gonna go
through this ever more rigorous cycle
saying oh well well Gianna no there's
still some fat in the oatmeal let's
eliminate oatmeal eliminate soy algae
fruit causes sugar spikes they only
allow you to have a tiny amount of fruit
every day but if it's not working then
you commit further by eliminating fruit
altogether on and on and on it goes and
the outcome is if you have hormonal acne
because you have a hormonal problem the
results can only be devastating and in
my girlfriend's case it was
psychologically devastating and
emotionally devastating in addition to
just meaning that for would have more
than three months it's felt like six
months I forget how many months this
experiment on for for many many months
she had absolutely horrible acne and it
also of course negatively impacted
things like job interviews impacted her
status as a student in China impacted
her whole life terribly I still loved
her I still supported her the fact that
her face her face was completely
transformed
but acne I mean you guys I think he'll
never see photographs of her during the
worst period of acne and and again and
always from the very beginning she
wanted to she wanted to take all of her
medicine and throw it in the garbage
that for her was the resolution her
resolution to her mind was she had a
period of her life before where she was
misled by doctors and now that was over
because she's found like the truth the
religious gospel truth preached by Nina
Aranda and backed up apparently by
respectable vegan doctors who were
quoted in this book I don't know if
those guys really backed this diet and
now all those drugs would go in the
garbage and she was gonna start this new
period of life being liberated and she
was gonna start tracking her period and
her menstrual cycle for herself and
natural birth control and natural cure
natural natural natural you can also die
a natural death okay it's a fact it's
this is medieval this is a mentality
straight out of the Dark Ages and for me
it's especially ironic that my
girlfriend fell into this loop because
she fell in love with me watching me
criticize others for exactly this
mentality on YouTube and then here I was
like in our apartment face-to-face
trying to talk her through this as
gently as possible repeatedly again and
again like no like you know even with
the issue with the actual medication
said no you have to keep the medication
with you you have to keep the medication
with you so that if this experiment
fails you're going to go back on your
medication
alright this is a medication that worked
for you for 10 years approximately so if
you're gonna have an experiment of
trying to treat your acne through diet
and without this medication you have to
be prepared for the possibility that the
experiment will fail and if it fails yet
you may get back on this medication you
may also have to go back to the
endocrinologist or go back to the
dermatologists you may have to go back
to seek medical help right because
you're you are taking this experiment on
at your own risk
my girlfriend respond to this viciously
this is not the only reason why we broke
up this is not the only reason why my
girlfriend has been abusive towards me
during the last year or last two years
it's not but my girlfriend respond to
this by denouncing me insulting me
screaming at me as if okay you know she
took different tactics at different
times we freaked out about this but she
attacked me as if the problem was I
didn't believe in her she attacked me as
if the problem was that I only cared
about my own pleasure and my own
convenience like as if I wanted to go
back in the birth control pill for that
reason that I didn't appreciate her
struggle against these horrible doctors
in the medical establishment it was she
didn't do this halfway okay it was all
the way crazy and this didn't this
didn't just happen once this resentment
she had against me exhibited itself
again and again and the last time the
last time an exhibits up which was the
breaking point for her I think because
it was just so absurd the very last time
she did this she was actually screaming
at me screaming that the reason she had
acne was me that I was the cause of her
acne not the diet not the medication not
quitting the medication not these other
things so her emotional and mental state
got worse and worse her diet got worse
and worse and her skin got worse and
worse
partly because it's say at the beginning
when her skin was okay she had more fat
in her diet she had a more reasonable
diet and during the brief periods during
the experiment which were the fat her
diet went back up again probably because
having more fat
let her hormonal system operate a little
bit more
I am knocking a list all the details I
think it's quite likely my girlfriend
will make more videos starting with the
details but let me just say through this
period of time the acne which we knew to
be hormonal it wasn't like a mystery to
determine is this hormonal acne or is it
caused by an allergy to nuts or is it
caused by oil in your day no we knew
from day one
this was hormonal acting during the
period of this experiment the acne was
not the only symptom of an underlying
hormonal condition of an underlying
endocrinology all correct me an
underlying problem with her endocrine
system something to do with the balance
of hormones but she did have other
symptoms and obviously during all the
years that she was on the birth control
pill those had been more or less
suppressed she sent me a screenshot of
somebody's comment on Facebook I thought
about sharing it here but I'm just I'm
just gonna paraphrase it it was a woman
in a Facebook group discussing this who
said of herself look a lot of you want
to think this diet is gonna solve all
your problems but the acne itself in
many cases not all cases in many cases
the acne itself is only a symptom of
some other real underlying problem and
she said that in her case she had acne
she thought she could cure the acne she
could just deal with a poem that's not
the reality for her she ended up having
surgery she had some kind of cyst or
growth or cancer somewhere in a
reproductive system and it could be
related the ovaries it could be related
the thyroid
there are various stages and
possibilities where something can be
wrong that's knocking your hormones at a
balance and if you think first
eliminating soy and then eliminating
oats and eliminating rice and
eliminating fruit if you think that this
elimination diet can bring you closer to
the truth I got to tell you something it
can also bring you closer to insanity